{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Garamond;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset129 AppleGothic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue228;\red85\green85\blue85;\red37\green37\blue37;
}
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ul \ulc0 \obliqueness0 \expansion0 Topic
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	
\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ul \ulc0 \obliqueness0 \expansion0 Due Date
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	
\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ul \ulc0 \obliqueness0 \expansion0 Remarks
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	
\f0\b\fs30 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ul \ulc0 \obliqueness0 \expansion0 Resource\
\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs50 \cb2 \up2 \ulnone [DRAFT] CDDRL HONORS THESIS OUTLINE			\
\pard\tx0\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	
\i\b0\fs40 \cb2 \up2 By Daniel Onggunhao, Stanford University			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx741\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\i0\b\fs36 \cb2 \up2 	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a1\'e5
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	i	Introduction	April 05	
\b0\fs26 Post completion	\
\pard\tx720\tx880\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b\fs30 \cb2 \up2 	1	 
\b0 \cb2 \up2 Smart Cities			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b \cb2 \up2 	2	Government as a Platform			\
\pard\tx1080\tx1460\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.1	iPhone applications. Make the platform useful, powerful			\
	2.2	iPhone is not an "open" architecture. But it is a platform			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	3	Gov 2.0: 			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx842\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cb2 \up2 	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a1\'e5
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	ii	What is Gov 2.0?			\
\pard\tx720\tx880\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cb2 \up2 	1	Web 2.0 and the Read/Write/Web			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2	What is Government 2.0/Govt as a Platform?			\
\pard\tx1080\tx1460\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.1	Closely tied to the idea of Citizen 2.0 (Alan Silberg)			\
	2.2	Potential to fundamentally transform the relationship between people and government?			\
	2.3	Collaborative government? API calls? Platform?			\
\pard\tx1080\tx1480\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	2.4	Tim O'Reilly's Government as a Platform:			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.4.1	Too often, we think of government as a kind of vending machine. We put in our taxes, and get out services: roads, bridges, hospitals, fire 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	}}brigades, police protection\'85 And when the vending machine doesn\'92t give us what we want, we protest. Our idea of citizen engagement has 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt www.forbes.com\
	}}somehow been reduced to shaking the vending machine. But what meetup teaches us is that engagement may mean lending our hands, not just 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt /2009/08/10/\
	}}our voices.			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt government-\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			internet-\
			software-\
			technology-\
			breakthroughs-\
			oreilly.html\
}}\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.2	In The Cathedral & the Bazaar, Eric Raymond uses the image of a bazaar to contrast the collaborative development model of open source 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ofps.oreilly.com/titles/9780596804350/defining_government_2_0_lessons_learned_.html"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	}}software with traditional software development, but the analogy is equally applicable to government. In the vending machine model, the full 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ofps.oreilly.com/titles/9780596804350/defining_government_2_0_lessons_learned_.html"}}{\fldrslt ofps.oreilly.com/\
	}}menu of available services is determined beforehand. A small number of vendors have the ability to get their products into the machine, and as a 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ofps.oreilly.com/titles/9780596804350/defining_government_2_0_lessons_learned_.html"}}{\fldrslt titles/\
	}}result, the choices are limited, and the prices are high. A bazaar, by contrast, is a place where the community itself exchanges goods and services.			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ofps.oreilly.com/titles/9780596804350/defining_government_2_0_lessons_learned_.html"}}{\fldrslt 9780596804350/\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			defining_govern\
			ment_2_0_lesso\
			ns_learned_.htm\
			l\
}}\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.3	Vending Machine government			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/Next-Government-United-States-Institutions/dp/0393051129"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			www.amazon.co\
			m/Next-\
			Government-\
			United-States-\
			Institutions/dp/\
			0393051129\
}}\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.4	Do it Ourselves.\'92\'94 Imagine if the state government were to reimagine itself not as a vending machine but an organizing engine for civic action. 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	}}Might DIO help us tackle other problems that bedevil us? Can we imagine a new compact between government and the public, in which 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt www.forbes.com\
	}}government puts in place mechanisms for services that are delivered not by government, but by private citizens? In other words, can government 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt /2009/08/10/\
	}}become a platform?			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt government-\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			internet-\
			software-\
			technology-\
			breakthroughs-\
			oreilly.html\
}}\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.5	Thomas Jefferson wrote in a letter to Joseph Cabel, "every man \'85 feels that he is a participator in the government of affairs, not merely at an 			\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	election one day in the year, but every day." In this model, government is a convener and an enabler--ultimately, it is a vehicle for coordinating 			\
	the collective action of citizens.			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.6	How does government itself become an open platform that allows people inside and outside government to innovate? How do you design a 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	}}system in which all of the outcomes aren't specified beforehand, but instead evolve through interactions between the technology provider and its 			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt www.forbes.com\
	}}user community?			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.forbes.com/2009/08/10/government-internet-software-technology-breakthroughs-oreilly.html"}}{\fldrslt /2009/08/10/\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			government-\
			internet-\
			software-\
			technology-\
			breakthroughs-\
			oreilly.html\
}}\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.7	We've gotten used to what Frank DiGiammarino of the National Academy of Public Administration recently called "vending machine 			\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	government" - the idea that we put in our taxes and fees, and get out services: $28 for a driver's license, $1 million for a mile of interstate 			\
	highway, $1 Trillion for a war or a financial rescue.			\
	In fact, governments, like corporations, are vehicles for collective action. We pay a government, or a business, because it's an efficient way to 			\
	tackle projects that are larger than a single person or group of friends can take on. But let's not forget that we ourselves are the raw material of 			\
	collective action.			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.8	Gov strives for architectures of participation, Civ joins with expertise, aspirations, Shall architectures regulate stakeholder interests, For the greater 			\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	public good?			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.9	How does government become an open platform that allows people inside and outside government to innovate? How do you design a system 			\
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	in which all of the outcomes aren\'92t specified beforehand, but instead evolve through interactions between government and its citizens, as a service 			\
	provider enabling its user community?			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.10	At the same time, platforms always require choices, and those choices must be periodically revisited. Platforms lose their power when they fail to 			\
\pard\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	adapt. The U.S. investment in the highway system helped to vitiate our railroads, shaping a society of automobiles and suburbs. Today, we need 			\
	to rethink the culture of sprawl and fossil fuel use that platform choice encouraged. A platform that once seemed so generative of positive 			\
	outcomes can become a dead weight over time.			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.11	Police, fire services, garbage collection: these are fundamental platform services, just like analogous services in computer operating systems. And 			\
\pard\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	of course, here we have an \'93antipattern\'94 from technology platforms: the failure to provide security, for example, as a fundamental system 			\
	service, leaving it instead to the \'93private sector\'94 of application vendors, has imposed a huge downstream cost on the technology ecosystem.			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.12	The smartphone platform story is perhaps the one most comforting to those inside government. Unlike the IBM PC or the Internet, the Apple 			\
\pard\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	iPhone is not a completely uncontrolled Wild West. Apple actively manages the platform to encourage innovation and choice while enforcing 			\
	clear rules. Some observers believe that over time, the iPhone platform will not prove open enough, and will be superseded by other, more 			\
	open platforms. 
\b But for the moment, Apple appears to be creating an effective balance between control and what Jonathan Zittrain 			\
	calls generativity.			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.4.13	There are two lessons for government in these stories. The first is the extraordinary power of open standards to foster innovation. When the 			\
\pard\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	barriers to entry to a market are low, entrepreneurs are free to invent the future. When barriers are high, innovation moves elsewhere. The 			\
	second is that vibrant platforms become less generative over time, usually because the platform vendor has begun to compete with its developer 			\
	ecosystem.			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.4.14				\
\pard\tx1080\tx1460\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.5	Wiki government? Book			\
	2.6	
\b Transparency 1.0:			
\b0 Transparency \
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			2.0, Laurence \
			Millar, \
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.6.1	The people\'92s right to know is a central pillar of democratic societies. Transparency, which gives effect to this right, is a critical element for building 			Transparency \
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	and maintaining trust in government. Effectively holding government accountable for services, decisions, and spending taxpayers\'92 money 			2.0, Laurence \
	depends on transparency.			Millar, \
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.6.2	Transparency 1.0 is underpinned by a legislative framework. For example, in New Zealand the Official Information Act allows people, with very 			Transparency \
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	few exceptions, to get the information they want from ministers and government organisations. Fiscal transparency is mandated by the Public 			2.0, Laurence \
	Finance Act and the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act.			Millar, \
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.6.3	Limitations of Transparency 1.0:			\
\pard\tx1800\tx2580\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.6.3.1	Potential to better systemize the release of government information, improve the operation of the Freedom of Information Act			\
	2.6.3.2	"Limitations inherent in the dynamic and mindset that Transparency 1.0 addresses. Either people ask for information and government 			\
\pard\tx2580\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	responds or the government makes it available under a legislative or good-practice imperative. The underlying assumption is one of inequality; 			\
	a mindset of opposing interests that requires a watchdog"			\
\pard\tx1080\tx1480\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	2.7	Open Government Philosophy:			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.7.1	Default should be that all non-personal data and informaiton held by government is publicly available. This requires a huge shift in attitudes and 			Transparency \
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	practices and is therefore likely to be part of a larger renewal of the democratic fabric.			2.0, Laurence \
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			Millar\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.7.2	Data and information should be freely available and usable.This means it is easy to find; in open machine-readable formats; has adequate 			Transparency \
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	metadata; licensing is standardised with no or minimal constraints on reuse; pricing is reasonable (zero cost being the norm), and it should timely			2.0, Laurence \
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			Millar\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2.7.3	There needs to be a shift to genuine dialogue; with two-way conversations and participation replacing consultation. Key enablers are a reduction 			Transparency \
\pard\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	of information asymmetries and the development of mutual respect.			2.0, Laurence \
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			Millar\
\pard\tx1080\tx1480\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	2.8	Gartner Research			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.8.1	\'93Gartner defines Government 2.0 as the use of information technology to socialize and commoditize government services, processes and data\'94.			\
\pard\tx1080\tx1480\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	2.9	Dimensions:			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.9.1	Culture: 1 way -> 2 way			\
	2.9.2	Participants: govt, contractors -> citizens, social entrepreneurs, startups, etc			\
	2.9.3	Speed: large, waterfall -> speed, agile			\
	2.9.4	Collaboration: silos -> collaboration?			\
	2.9.5	Young people driving government?			\
\pard\tx1080\tx1600\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	2.10	Closing the loop:			\
\pard\tx1440\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b0 	2.10.1	Old 1.0 model: Send in feedback			\
	2.10.2	The the loop needs to be closed. Gov 2.0 means being able to take the feedback, show that it's been listened to, and some how demonstrate 			\
\pard\tx2160\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	that it's either helped to inform opinion or lead to an action. Work together with other people's feedback			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\b 	3	Open Government and Accountability/Regulation			\
	4	Open Government and harnessing better data collection (wiki government), correcting errors in data			\
	5	Participatory government and Collective Intelligence/Knowledge, harnessing wider analysis, participate in micro-decision making 			\
\pard\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	(executive)			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	6	Participatory government: crowdsourcing problems, ideas			\
	7	Participatory government: govt as a platform to keep people updated, connected to what government is doing			\
	8	Government as a Platform for Citizens 2.0, to build apps			\
	9	Government Data Standards			\
\pard\tx720\tx1020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	10	Self-mobilization (civic mobilization and community, crowdsourcing independent of Govt)			\
\pard\tx720\tx1000\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	11	Social Media: Networked Government, communications channel during crises			\
\pard\tx720\tx1020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	12	Collaborative government: government working with larger networks to achieve goals			\
	13	e-Democracy: Democratic discussions (legislative), Open Source Governance, Consultation etc			\
	14	e-Government: providing services/self-service government			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx943\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cb2 \up2 	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a1\'e5
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	iii	Gov 2.0 across countries: Different motives, different forms			\
\pard\tx720\tx880\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cf4 \cb2 \up2 	1	Models of moving toward Open Government			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
\cf4 	2	Open Government Partnership			\
	3	USA			\
	4	United Kingdom			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
\cf4 \cb2 \up0 	5	China			\
	6	Russia			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
\cf4 \cb2 \up2 	7	Australia			\
	8	Europe			\
	9	Canada			\
\pard\tx720\tx1020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
\cf4 	10	New Zealand			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a1\'e5
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	iv	Failed Promises, Dangers, and Limits			\
\pard\tx720\tx880\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cb2 \up2 	1	Disenfranchising the unplugged			\
\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2	Can the data be believed?			\
	3	People aren't interested in transparency: root cause. Too much data, nobody's interested			\
	4	Hard Sell for politicians/civil servants			\
	5	Into the arms of Big Brother			\
	6	Government Data Security			\
	7	Goverati, Gov2.0 as a buzzword			\
	8	Government as a Platform vs Open Government			\
	9	Government is not a platform			\
\pard\tx720\tx1020\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	10	New form, same shit?			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx805\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cb2 \up2 	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a2\'ba
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	v	Conclusion			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx906\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a2\'ba
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	vi	Resources for Government as a Platform			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx1007\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a2\'ba
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	vii	Stuff to read/People to reach out to:			\
\pard\tx360\tx600\tx1108\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	
\f2\b0\fs26 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 \'a1\'e5
\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \cb2 \up2 \nosupersub \ulnone \obliqueness0 \expansion0 	viii	Singapore stuff			\
\pard\tx720\tx880\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural

\fs30 \cb2 \up2 	1	eGov2015:			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.egov.gov.sg/egov-masterplans/egov-2015/vision-strategic-thrusts"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			www.egov\
			.gov.sg/\
			egov-\
			masterpla\
			ns/\
			egov-2015\
			/vision-\
			strategic-\
			thrusts\
}}\pard\tx720\tx900\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
	2	eGov portal			{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.egov.gov.sg/"}}{\fldrslt http://\
\pard\tx18100\tx20280\tx22460\pardirnatural
			www.egov\
			.gov.sg/\
}}}